Bias-Scanner is copyright (c)2023, 2024 by Jochen L. Leidner.
All rights reserved.

§1. License Grant

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, the Licensor
(Dr. Jochen L. Leidner) hereby grants you a worldwide, royalty-free,
non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, revocable right to use Bias-Scanner
("the Software") for non-commercial use only, provided

(a) it is used for the Approved Purpose (as defined in §3 below); 

(b) a copy of this license is included;

(c) a link to https://github.com/Information-Access-Research-Group-IARG/biasscanner/
    is retained in the package, distribution and installation; and

(d) any changes made by the licensees are also open-sourced under this
    license.

§2. No Commercial Use

Commercial use is not permitted under this license.  For a commercial
license, please contact the Licensor to obtain a separate, commercial
license.

§3. Approved Purpose

BiasScanner and derived software shall only be used for the purposes of
news analysis (news bias identification and classification).

It is strictly prohibited, and constitutes a grave violation of this
license leading to its automatic revocation, to generate biased news,
propaganda, fake news and other content with this system.

§4. Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and
as-available, and makes no representations or warranties of any kind
concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory,
or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title,
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement,
absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence or
absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this
disclaimer may not apply to You.  To the extent possible, in no event
will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including,
without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special,
indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other
losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License
or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised
of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where
a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this
limitation may not apply to You.

The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided
above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible,
most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all
liability.
